TeachStatsWithR
===============




Materials for the MOSAIC "Teaching Statistics with R and RStudio"

### Outline

This project consists of several short books that are inter-related.

1. Start Teaching with R
    Directory: `Starting`
2.  The Core of a Traditional Course
    Directory: `Traditional`
3. Simulation-Based Inference
    Directory: `Simulation`
4. Functions and Formulas
    Directory: `Functions`
5. Teaching with Internet Services
    Directory: `Internet`
6. Start with Modeling
    Directory: `Modeling`
    
APPENDICES

A. Style instructions for authors
B. ...

Outlines for the individual chapters are in the `Outline.Rmd` file in each directory.

## Overview

Some general comments about the project as a whole.

## Start Teaching with R: Outline


Random list of things to include:
* RStudio introduction
* Packages and why to use them
* The mosaic package and others that we recommend
* Minimal R reference
* Rmd
* Umbrella for other books
* Error messages.  Things to look for in error messages.
    * overwriting names
    * recycling vectors
    * factors and characters
* Data
    * `data()`
    * Group data with Google forms
    * `fetchData()` and requesting a repository name
    * distributing other kinds of files, e.g. templates for .Rmd, scripts, ...
* Style
    * Don't use one-letter names in your examples.  Your students will pick this up and end up saying things like `c = makeFun(x~x)`, which will mask `base::c()` and mess everything up until you `remove(c)`


## R Core for a Traditional Course: Outline


## Simulation-Based Inference: Outline


## Functions and Formulas: Outline


## Using Internet Services: Outline


## Start Modeling Early: Outline



Appendix A: Style Instructions for Authors
=======================


Notes for the authors can be included using `\authNote{A note to the authors.}`

Processed notes for the authors can be hidden using `\authNoted{A noted note to the authors.}`

## Some Style Guidelines

1. R Code
    1. Use space after comma in argument lists 
    2. No space around = in argument list
    3. Use space around operators, `<-` and `->`
    4. Casual comments (no need for caps)
    5. When referring to functions in the text, add empty parens (e.g., `data()`) to make it clear that the object is a function.
2. Exercises
    N.B. Some exercises are for instructors, not for students.
    1. Use `\begin{problem} ... \end{problem}` to define problems.
    2. Use `\begin{solution} ... \end{solution}` to define solutions.

This must be \emph{outside} the `problem` environment and before the definition of the next problem.  Put it immediately after `\end{problem}` to avoid confusion.

* Use `\shipoutProblems` to display all problems queued up since the last `shipoutProblems`.
* Examples
    Put within  `\begin{example}` and `end{example}`.  We can tweak the formatting later.

* Marginal Notes
    We can place some marginal notes with:
    * `\InstructorNote{This is an instructor note.}`
    * `\FoodForThought{We can tweak the layout, color, size, etc. later.  For now. I'm just using color to distinguish.}`
    * `\Caution{This is a caution}`


1. Variable names.  Often it's nice to distinguish between anactual variable name and a word that might have a similar name, for instance between sex and `sex`.  Use the `\VN{sex}` command to accomplish this.
1. Model formulas.  Use `\model{A}{B+C}` to generate `A ~ B+C` .  Often, you may want to use variable names, for instance `\model{\VN{height}}{\VN{age}+\VN{sex}}` gives `height ~ age + sex`.
 



### R-forge svn

The mosaic R-forge repository contains

* The `.Rnw` files 
* The dependencies in `bin/`
* *LaTeX* dependencies in `inputs/`  
    * `problems.sty` (for problems and solutions)
    * `authNote.sty` (for author notes)
    * `probstat.sty` (for some prob/stat macros)
    * `sfsect.sty` (for san serif section title fonts)

You may need to set an environment variable to make *LaTeX* look here.
* the `cache/` and `figures/` directories (so that `make` can be used 
without complaint), but *not* their contents, which are generated by `sweave`.
* screenshots and other images not generated by `sweave` are in `images/`

